= Ruby Ambidextrous Meta-Language


== RESOURCES

* home: http://rubyworks.github.com/raml
* code: http://github.com/rubyworks/raml
* mail: http://googlegroups.com/group/rubyworks-mailinglist


== DESCRIPTION

RAML is a flexable data format, suitable for a variety of uses, such
as configuration files.

Admittedly, "Ruby Ambidextrous Meta-Language" is a funny name. But
nonetheless fitting, becuase unlike YAML, RAML can handle a wider
variety of data format design needs, even limited markup formats.
Unlike YAML, RAML is not a serialization language.


== SYNOPSIS

Basic usage entails providing a RAML document to either RAML.eval() 
or RAML.load().

  RAML.eval("name 'Joe'")

  RAML.load("name 'Bob'")

Theses class methods can also take IO objects.

  RAML.eval(File.new('foo.raml'))

  RAML.load(File.new('foo.rml'))

See the QED documentation for more detailed examples.


== STATUS

The current implementation simply has two different parsers, a Ripper based
parser and and a Kernel.eval based parser, utilized via RAML.load() and
RAML.eval() respectively. The Ripper-based parser is not very robust at this
time and is NOT RECOMMEDED for production use, as it will parse invalid
RAML documents without complaint. The eval parser on the other hand works well
and can run with $SAFE=0 or in a $SAFE=4 sandbox, which mitigates most
(though not all) security concerns.


== SPECIAL THANKS

Big props to <b>Robert Dober</b> for taking the time to help me improve
the code.


== COPYING

(MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Thomas Sawyer

RAML is distributed under the terms of the MIT license.
See COPYING.rdoc for details.

